uh cpcs and
you know
costs for impressions decreasing
drastically right now i don't know if
you guys see that but we see that we
also see conversion rates
[Music]
decreasing before we get started make
sure you subscribe to this channel and
if you're on youtube click the alert
notification the man the myth the legend
thanks for your time then
yeah no problems let's do this so with
these i've only done a few of them so
far but
what i love to start off with is
exploring into the hero stories but with
you neil it's a little bit different
because i don't know how many podcasts
interviews stages you've been on where
you've kind of explo explained your
early beginnings of you know i think uh
you know you weren't poor you weren't
rich um you knew you wanted to make a
lot of money uh so you hit the i think
you hit the job boards you
realized that
wait a second this job board is making
millions of dollars why not try to
duplicate it and from there you kind of
you kind of thought about how to drive
traffic so
i i imagine you've explained that a
bunch what i wanted to start off with is
where did the hustle mentality come from
what was it like living in the patel
household like how did you first even
think of making money on your own
i grew up in orange county which is the
neighboring county
and
you know you have some nice parts of
orange county like right on the beach
like laguna and newport super expensive
you have people driving ferraris and
stuff like that
i grew up in northern orange county
right so away from the water
and where i grew up the homes are really
old and as you know it gets hot in
california we had no air conditioning in
our house
see the hustle mentality just came from
like i just wanted a better life
and i knew my parents couldn't provide
it because
i was you know at that time i was in
high school i'm like man i've been with
them for so long they've raised me
they've done a good job but they just
don't know how to make money so i'm like
i gotta go figure this out on my
own yeah and that's where the mentality
came from now my mom was a good
entrepreneur she never made a lot but
she was good
she didn't speak the best in english but
she did fine like my mom was like
all right so you guys know all about
affiliate marketing you guys have the
affiliate world conference just think of
this
if you want someone to promote you you
pay them money my mom had a home daycare
she'd be like you know what there's a
lot of other home daycares around here
where they're full because legally you
can only have so many kids my mom's like
let me go to all of them and give them
my flyer and tell them hey if you have
any overage overflow send them my way
she didn't pay him no affiliate
commission he just said hook me up
yeah and uh that's how she grew her
business nice it's like it's probably a
crazy thing to do like who dare go to
their competition be like hey any
business you have that you don't want to
take just give it me yeah i'm not going
to compensate you i'm not going to give
you anything to pick it up
so with so i guess she was she was
sharing these kind of methods as she
went and you were kind of just
eavesdropping in on how that hustle and
she didn't share the methods but yeah i
was more ease dropping like i would see
her do it yeah my mom had no clue about
advertising she's like i'm gonna put an
ad in the penny saver i don't even know
if the penny saver still
well
so i mean fast forwarding you're getting
these big checks in the mail and i
remember you on stage giving the best um
impression or impersonation of
your dad i think they're like it's not
perfect oh son today you're gonna get a
beating give me your best
impersonation of your family realizing
you're making bank online
so it was funny so when i was starting
to get the checks my dad's like oh
where'd this come from and you know at
the end of the day i'm not the best at
impersonations but
my dad
at first before i started getting the
checks he would be like
whatever you save i'll match it now my
parents never made a lot but they saved
a lot okay and then as the check started
getting bigger and bigger
he withdrew his matching statement you
know because he couldn't match it
but i started getting checks like at
some point like of people paying 10 20
grand a month and when you're in high
school even right now that's a lot of
money and keep in mind my dad was making
10 grand a month so he's like oh what is
this right yeah um but they were just
shocked they're like oh what did our kid
do
you know at first i was the idiot and
then they're like ah
maybe this idiot has something going for
him
what
and they didn't feel like i was really
an idiot i just wasn't as smart as my
sister
oh of course of course
what point were you making 10 10k a
month as a it was a teenager yeah like
16ish i guess and this was off of the
job site or
no so the job site failed okay
and that was funny because when you
started the interview i thought you were
giving me a background and not starting
that are you so i was like okay sounds
good but um
with the job site
see
i i created the job site and i put that
out there and no one came to it you know
a lot of people know the story so i had
to learn marketing on my own
but as the job site got traffic i still
wasn't making money it was like through
this even though i wasn't that smart
i was i did decently well in school
still
uh just not compared to my sister i
think my sister was like one of the top
four girls in the state of california oh
wow pressure something like that right
so um
so what i ended up doing was
i started taking nighttime college
classes while i was in high school to
finish so that way when i would go to
college i can be done like in two years
amazing yeah and my first class was
speech 101 and i gave a speech on how
google works and seo works and someone
in there hired me for five grand a month
you're kidding me
yeah he's like i'm a sales rep this
company called elpac uh we produce power
supplies for like heart resuscitators
boeing planes you know we're a big b2b
industrial conglomerate or not really
industrial conglomerate but we're a big
b2b company we deal with industrial
conglomerates
um and they're like we do roughly 20
million a year and we want someone to
help us generate more leads online and i
helped them generate an additional 20
through leads
and it wasn't about me because it showed
up still had to close
yeah but uh the guy in there he's like
yeah can i introduce you because at that
time there really wasn't people didn't
know what seo was or how to run google
ads and yeah that started
so your first big bank check was
your first speaking gig
it came from that and then for that from
because it was five grand a month and
then from there
the owner of the company i started
making money like who's this guy's
making us money he found out i was a kid
he's an old gentleman
his son owned an ad agency and was
dealing with like blue cross countrywide
which is now owned by bank of america
right
under during the last uh recession in
2008.
so his son was selling my services for
me and just taking some white label
agency
i would just do the work and do a white
light but that's hilarious when uh so
this was teenager or this was going in
towards college but even when i was
doing some digging i came across um
a story of yours where you said that you
got caught hacking into aol at age 12.
i was in first hand aol member and then
i was getting like free movies and stuff
what do you did it for free movies
that's that was the premise
yeah so i didn't have to pay for a movie
theater money was tight back then
i love it um
i i do know that once you did kind of
step into affiliate marketing um you
also said that i think this might have
been on stage with us that you were
ranking number one for like casino
offers auto insurance uh
yeah web hosting you said you were
ranking number one for all of those now
ranking number one for just one of those
is impressive what were you doing at
that time that you probably can't even
do right now to be able to rank
like that i was doing things like having
wordpress themes releasing them and just
putting in rich links so anyone who
downloaded my wordpress theme was like
linked back to me i was doing stuff
that's
not
above the board when it comes to seo and
i wouldn't recommend it a little trying
to make a quick buck and if i took the
longer route i would have stayed there
and i would have made money much longer
and still had that extra income today
so that was my big faux pas
yeah i mean everyone's got many of them
and or otherwise they're not really
they're not doing it right unless
they're tripping over things um
from there
i know that yeah i mean with affiliate
marketing
how far did you go on the offer side or
did you normally just gravitate
gravitate towards your own services in
your agency owned services and agencies
i've never been big in affiliate
marketing
i just don't like the
non-steady income
the ups and downs yeah correct i like
being on the other side where you're
offering affiliate offer and you're
recruiting affiliates versus your being
the affiliate much more control
correct yeah because i i
i look at time so
whatever you're doing most affiliates
want income i don't don't get me wrong i
want income i'm not rich at all but i
want the opportunity to celebrate
creating an affiliate
you know business and just making some
money is it's hard to flip that business
being doing something more sustainable
and recruiting affiliates
and then making money that way yeah
to your point though of you saying
you're not rich at all one of the
funnier stories i've heard is that you
are homeless
i don't know if that's true still but
there came to be a point in your life
where you there
it is still so that well
not homeless i live in my wife's house
but yes yeah but it was the
materialistic items that uh
you know once you get a lot of money
spending them um
you know it just doesn't the happiness
never lasts and and so the story was you
kind of just gave up all of that and
didn't did you donate a bunch of it or
donate a lot of it uh some of it i kept
some of it i dumped into more businesses
but yeah like i live in a home
i have a kid so you you kind of need a
home when you have a kid and a while of
course
but um i live my wife's house
nice nice i just i want to ask you um
you have uh
you obviously
you have a lot of data on your end that
you get insight and insights into that a
lot of people don't you're super
generous with uh with all of it on your
blog as well um
you had referenced how
it was during the last recession with um
in regards to ad buying and
prices and you know like not seeing so
much of a blip in the last recession but
with kovid right now
let's hear about that yeah
so
i don't you guys probably have some data
as well because you guys know more
physics than i do but we're seeing uh
cpcs and you know
costs for impressions decreasing
drastically right now
i don't know if you guys see that but we
see that we also see conversion rates
decreasing
but
for most things but
the cp
c's have dropped down so much that
you're still making more money even
though with the conversion dips does
that make sense yeah you know of course
yeah
because it's like if the conversions dip
i'm making a number up just to keep the
numbers simple for everyone but if your
conversions dipped by 20
but your cps dipped by 40 are uh number
40 but by 4x so 400 you still make more
money
are you seeing that across the board
though or is it just is it vertical
based
vertical base yeah yeah because i mean
you shared recently um in toilet paper
your cpcs aren't going down honestly
your cpcs may not be going down but your
cpas are going down because everyone's
bought it yeah of course
you're selling travel your cpcs are
really plummeted but your
cpa is even worse than your cpc so it
doesn't even matter right well to that
point too you shared your graph recently
of how um
food food wrinkles exploding obviously
whether the people are looking to uh for
new recipes off of say like a download
bar or something or food delivery apps
that are absolutely smashing it right
now
um but everything else is majority down
like most verticals outside of that
besides health um which i saw on your
graph had a little bit of a or has an
increase um almost everything
up through word of mouth does that make
sense like the ones that are up like
people aren't necessarily being like huh
i need a disinfectant for my house
they're just like i need bleach and they
just go and buy bleach right it sounds
like a lot of the people who are
crushing it right now are the brand
names
yes and no i mean a lot of the brands
are the ones who are having to slash
budgets and we're seeing a lot of offers
go down
of course but i'm saying for the
industries that are hot yeah they're
they're hot enough where people don't do
google searches to buy those products
they're just buying them and going
directly to the brand
so with with that being said
more than not this time in particular
brands
are what people should be focusing on
building over anything else you should
be brand focused first because they can
you know be that that take over that
bleach over um
hand sanitizer keyword or whether it's
uh facebook like you know avoiding ftc
looking for brands that they can rely on
brands now are more important than ever
wouldn't you say especially during this
time
yes
you know and this is a great time to
focus on building a brand but it's just
a terrible time in general right it
doesn't mean you can't start a business
or come out fine it's just it's times
are tough right now
what would be your uh your advice for
you know small agencies uh five to ten
size um you know with clients that are
in a broad range of verticals um what
would be your advice for them would be
uh you know buckle down
help them on the back end as much as
possible
cut fat i know that sounds bad but
sometimes you have to cut to stay in
business or furlough uh try to avoid
that if you can apply for like the
government loans and grants in different
countries so that way you can detain
people
uh the second thing would be offer
additional services to make up any
revenue loss
the third thing would be is get creative
and start thinking out of the box people
can't pay you maybe they can pay you on
a performance basis so
start trying different things just to
get your income going
and
focusing a lot on the back end for your
clients as much as possible as well
right if there's less money coming in
correct yes yeah yeah and so what are
some of the uh the clients that you've
seen yourself being a little bit more
worried about on your end
brick and mortar we have some clients
that have
a ton of stores like throughout the us
like like oh yeah we have
400 locations it's just like all right
you know i can't really run ads for
their offline locations anymore yeah of
course of course
it is what it is you know more
importantly if i lose a little bit of
money it's not bad i just hope less
people lose their jobs and
we all come out of this stronger and
hopefully the least amount of people
pass away from kobe
yeah yeah it's unprecedented times for
sure and every day we're learning things
new and
you know it's we don't have to go into
it too much but you know returning the
economy back to normal is one thing like
is the cure worth it it's this this
ongoing conversation um no yeah it's
gonna be the same for a while
well yeah to that point too on like
consumer habits after this where do you
see consumer habits shifting towards and
cautious
you're you're gonna still see people
retain their disney plus and netflix
subscriptions
um because i know in many cases they've
been booming you're gonna start seeing
older see you and i already use things
like amazon i'm assuming you use amazon
all the time
your parents are less likely to use
amazon though
right people like my parents barely use
amazon now though they're using it for
everything including grocery delivery
and they're like ah this is convenient
huh this is the same price i would have
paid at the store huh there's this thing
called a prime membership where i get
free tv and free music and everything
like they're like this is super
convenient you're gonna have a lot of
people come online
they were online anyways but now they're
making more purchases online they're
realizing how convenient it is because
they didn't just have to do it for a
week
it's been so far a month and then it'll
take roughly another month or two
so they're getting used to it yeah
you're gonna see a lot of these people
continue with that trend does that make
sense i know it makes perfect sense you
could almost say we accelerated five
years or something down the road where
this was going to happen it's just
everyone was forced to get more used to
it and
and to the point of your brick and
mortar like clients like this is the
scariest point ever is that once we get
through this will it ever be the same
for them again or is it still going to
be on the decline just sooner right
yeah so
you know and some of them even if
they're on the decline they'll adapt
like target will do more deliveries or
walmart will or whatever it may be but
you know you're totally right it's like
this was going to happen eventually just
sped things up i think that's a great
way to put it
and so now realizing that it's about
focusing your if you're an agency it's
about focusing as much time as you can
on getting them ready for a full online
experience really correct um and being
transparent with what the reality is
going to look like for them down the
road yeah
yeah
um i i know your time is probably super
precious i don't want to get these
things to last too long are there any
other leftover comments that you want to
leave with the audience um
you know any other other insights you've
had i know on your blog you've talked
about how for e-commerce there's um you
know um
spreading payments out like what are
what are things that our marketers or
audiences can can consider when adapting
to this change
big thing that your audience will
probably love is selling informational
based educational products are crushing
it right now yeah
like anyone listening if you haven't
started you should consider selling you
can like get up and running through
click funnels just run some ads through
facebook and you can crush it create
good courses and products but
yeah really well especially right now
with cpas being solo yeah i mean to that
point make good products everyone
there's so much noise out there
everyone's selling a course be different
be bold do something that actually
provides value
i think the industry
can get a bit of a bad rep with all
these courses out there but provide that
unique advantage something that you can
only share is much appreciated for
everyone in this industry and and those
clients that are purchasing it as well
but you're right neil this is the time
people are shifting online to learn
people are looking for additional uh
income revenues uh generated for
themselves so this is the time if you
have something to share if it's unique
definitely go online and do it
neil thank you thank you for the time i
know it was quick but i appreciate it um
and we'll definitely chat soon okay
take care see ya